[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So, we should use
elements of good composition wherever
applicable and I think we should, for
example, use a space after a comma,
not before a comma.
That's how we do it in literary style.
In a programming style, we should do the
same thing unless we have clear evidence
of a benefit that occurs
from that difference.
Because we already have all this
education locked into our brains about
those sorts of patterns.
We can use that to make it easier for
writing our programs.
>> Douglas Crockford: Now
programming requires significantly
more precision than writing does, so
we'll need additional rules.
For example I propose that we use
spaces to disambiguate parents.
We use parents to indicate parts of
statements, to indicate invocations and
function definitions and grouping.
And so to help us to distinguish
those cases, I propose a rule.
There is no space between
a function name and a left paren.
And there's always one space between
all other names, and a left paren.
So, by that rule these
forms are all wrong.
For example,
return is not a function in this language.
So, we shouldn't make it look
like a function invocation.
Now you can argue, well someone could
easily figure out what these mean, right?
So it doesn't matter.
But it does matter because you
want the person who's reading
your program to understand
what the program does.
You don't don't want them to be mentally
correcting you and proofreading it,
because that is distracting them from the
much more important work of figuring out
what your program does and
how do we make it better.
So one of the good parts in JavaScript
is the immediately invocable
function expression.
And we'll look a lot at
these much more later today.
And unfortunately the design
of JavaScript didn't
anticipate that this was
a feature of the language.
So here we've got a function statement and
we want to
invoke that function immediately but
we can't, it's a syntax error.
Someone figured out that we can
wrap the function in parens.
That function is now
an expression position and
now we can immediately invoke it.
But then you've got
the extra invoking parents
hanging off on the end
like a pair of dog balls.
So we can do better for
the reader by wrapping the entire
invocation expression in parens.
So now the goal is not to just get
it passed to the compiler, but
to give a little bit more information to
the reader, so that when the reader sees
a function and the closing parens wrapped
in parentheses, that means something.
That means what's important
here is not the function,
it's the result of the function.
And just by moving the pair
in one space over,
we give a little bit more information
to the reader and that can be helpful.
And again we do it at no cost.
So you remember earlier I warned you
about automatic semicolon insertion
how it sometimes puts them in places
where you think it shouldn't and
sometimes doesn't put them
in places where it should.
This is one of those times.
So here we've got an expression statement,
someone left out the semi-colon expecting
that the system was going to add it but
in this case the system
is not going to add it.
So instead of assigning y to x, we're
going to assign the result of calling y as
a function passing the result of
the other function as its argument,
which is not how anybody would read this,
but that's how the compiler reads it.
And so I recommend never rely on
automatic semicolon insertion.
Always put the semicolons in,
and in the right place.
If you're not sure where that is, will be
really happy to tell you where they go.
JavaScript has a with statement, which was
modeled after the Pascal with statement.
Which was intended to make it easier to
write certain kinds of function access or
object accesses.
Unfortunately it wasn't
designed correctly.
So here we've got a with statement and
here we have four statements
that it expands into.
Can anyone guess which
of these that will do?
>> Douglas Crockford: Anybody?
>> Speaker 2: Maybe it's the first one.
>> Douglas Crockford: Actually it's
a trick question.
It could be any of them.
There's no way you can tell by reading the
program, which of these it's going to do.
And in fact, it's possible that
every time that statement executes,
it could be a different one.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] O.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
it depends on O.
And since it can't know what O is at time,
there's no way to read the program.
So we want to be confident that our
programs are perfect, but how can you know
that your program is perfect if you
can't even read the program and
know what it does?
So for that reason, I recommend
don't ever use the with statement.
You don't need it.
Leave it out.
You're better off without it.
Now there are a lot of very clever
uses for the with statement.
And the people who
discover these clever uses
think that they should be entitled
to use it, because it's so useful.
But I'm not saying it isn't useful,
I'm saying there is never a case
where it isn't confusing.
And confusion is the enemy.
Confusion must be avoided.
Confusion is when a program
appears to do one thing and
it actually does something else.
Another word for that, bug.
We don't want bugs.
So I want to eliminate as many
sources of confusion as possible
because I'm trying to attain perfection.
I may never get there but
God Almighty that's where I'm going,
I wanna try and
make programs that are perfect.
JavaScript has a double equal operator.
I have problems with that,
I think it should've been called equal.
But that's another thing
that Thompson did to us.
But unfortunately even worse than what
Thomson did, it does type coercion.
So first it looks at the two
types of its arguments, and
if they're not the same
type it will convert one or
both of them to another type and
then compare that result.
And as a result, you get false positives
and it also means you lose transitivity.
Transitivity means that if two
things are equal to the same thing,
then they should be equal to each other.
That's not the case here.
So when JavaScript was developed,
this was thought to be a good idea.
Turns out it's not.
So the inventor of the language
realized he'd made a mistake.
So when it went to be standardized, he
went to the standardization committee and
said, I screwed up the double equal but
I know the fix for it.
We just have it not do type coercion.
I've already tested it in
the Netscape codebase and
it actually runs a little faster and
it's all smaller, so that's good.
It's a big win.
So let's do this, right.
And the committee said no, no,
we're gonna keep it the way it is.
But we'll offer you triple
equal as a compromise.
So, a lot of people don't like
triple equal because instead of
having to go [NOISE].
You now have to go [NOISE] and
say, yeah triple equal.
Always use triple equal.
>> Speaker 2: There's JSLint.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, JSLint tell
you for sure.
JSLint will recommend this triple equal.
>> Speaker 2: Will fix it?
>> Douglas Crockford: It won't fix it,
you have to fix your own code.
[LAUGH] But JSLint is very happy
to tell you about the terrible
things you've done but
it's on you to make it right.
As it should be.
Now there are some cases.
Because that double equal accidentally
does exactly what you want.
Should you use it then?
I recommend no.
Don't even use it then.
Because you don't want the person who's
reading your code to have to ask,
did he find the one case where double
equal actually does exactly what you want?
Or is he just incompetent?
[LAUGH] You don't want people asking
that question when they're reading
your code, right?
You want them to understand
what it's doing and
go, yeah this is well written stuff,
I can make this better.
So if there is a feature of the language
that is sometimes problematic, and
if it could be replaced by another
feature that is more reliable,
then always use the more reliable feature.
This is a surprisingly controversial
statement but I think it's obviously true.
So this is a feature that was added
in the s5, multiline string literals.
There are lots of other languages
that do this in exactly the same way.
I think it was a mistake.
First because it breaks indentation
because the continuation has to be
over on the margin.
And indentation is really important for
understanding the composition of our
programs right, because we've got nested
functions nested objects, nested blocks.
That nesting is critically important and
this breaks indentation.
And it does impair readability and
that's a bad thing.
But worse than that, there's this syntax
hazard where this statement is correct.
This one is a syntax error.
Can anybody spot the error in the second
statement?
>> Speaker 3: There's a space at
the beginning of the second line?
>> Douglas Crockford: Nope.
>> Speaker 2: Space Towards the \.
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah, exactly,
there's a space right here.
>> Speaker 2: Can't you see it?
>> Douglas Crockford: Yeah,
it's obvious once you point it out, right.
But I'm trying to make
programs that are perfect.
I wanna be a look at and go, yes,
that is perfect, and I can't.
So I don't wanna use this.
We spend a lot of our time searching for
the needle in the haystack.
We can cut that time down if our
programs look less like haystacks.
So, avoid forms that are difficult
to distinguish from common
errors.
>> Douglas Crockford: This is another one
due to Thompson.
He allowed you to put
assignment expressions in
condition position of an if statement.
Java got this right, Java says you have to
put something that evaluates to a boolean.
But then JavaScript got it wrong and
went back to the C way and
said you can put any expression in there.
So this statement appears
to do what this one does.
But it actually does what this one does.
And so
you don't ever wanna write this one.
You wanna figure out which one
you mean and write that instead.
Make your programs look like what they
do and don't make your reader guess,
did you get it right or not.